Overview
The aim of this competition is to develop artificial intelligence and machine learning-based models for an important task in predictive maintenance, i.e., fault detection. We are working on a robot that comprises of $6$ motors. Through a condition-monitoring program, we can collect in real-time the position, temperature and voltage for each motor. Using these features, you need to detect if a given motor is working normally at a given time. The performance of your model will be evaluated based on the F1 score of detecting failures in the testing dataset.

Start

2 months ago
Close

2 days to go
Description
The robot
This competition is based on an educational robot ArmPi FPV from Hiwonder. As shown in the Figure below, it is driven by six motors and, therefore, has six degrees of freedom. The robot is controlled by a raspberry Pi 4B single-board computer and RoS Melodic. The six motors are all servo motors and can give feedback on their position, temperature, and voltage upon request.



Condition-monitoring system
We developed a condition-monitoring system in Matlab to interact with RoS and gets the position, temperature and voltage of all the six motors in real-time. The data collection frequency is $10$ Hz so we have $1$ data point every $0.1$ seconds.

An illustration of the data collection process can be shown below.



This condition-monitoring program is made open-source under the MIT licence thanks to the financial support from the French Research Council under contract number ANR-22-CE-10-0004 DFT. The source code for the condition-monitoring is available from this repository.

Failure definition
In this project, we intend to detect failures due to abnormal motor temperature rise. This failure mode can occur for many reasons like motor being blocked and can be very dangerous in practice. However, in this study, we choose to simulate the failure in order to avoid damaging the motors. The failure is simulated by first selecting the beginning and end of the failure period. Then, a peak temperature will be selected randomly. Finally, the failure temperature trend is generated by assuming that the temperature rises 2 times faster as temperature descends. Below is the source code used to simulate the failure behavior (available in Github from here).

function temperature = inject_failure(temperature, label)
    % Get the sequence where failure is injected.
    tmp_temp = temperature(label==1);
    % Length of the sequence.
    n_seq = length(tmp_temp);
    % Decide the sequence where temperature rise: We assume temperature
    % rise is 2 times faster as temperature drop.
    n_rise = floor(n_seq/3);
    if ~isempty(tmp_temp) 
        % Get the starting and ending temperature
        temp_start = tmp_temp(1);
        temp_end = tmp_temp(end);

        % Generate a random highest temperature
        temp_high = max(temp_start, temp_end) + randi([2, 10]);
        % Generate the temperature rise
        step_size_rise = floor(n_rise/(temp_high-temp_start+1));
        for i = 1:temp_high-temp_start
            tmp_temp((i-1)*step_size_rise+1:i*step_size_rise) = temp_start+i-1;
        end
        tmp_temp(i*step_size_rise+1:n_rise) = temp_high;

        % Generate temperature decrease
        step_size_down = floor(2*n_rise/(temp_high-temp_end));
        for i = 1:temp_high-temp_end-1
            tmp_temp(n_rise+1+(i-1)*step_size_down:n_rise+i*step_size_down) = temp_high-i;
        end
        tmp_temp(n_rise+i*step_size_down+1:end) = temp_end;       
    end
    temperature(label==1) = tmp_temp;
end
Objectives
The objective of this competition is to predict the health state of each one of the $6$ motors:

$0$ means working normally,
$1$ means having abnormal temperature rise.
Evaluation
You will need to predict the labels for all the six motors. The evaluation will be done based on the average F1 score over the six motors. Please follow the format of 'sample_submission.csv' to make your submission.

"""
Average F1 Score for the six motors.
"""

import pandas as pd
import pandas.api.types
from sklearn.metrics import f1_score


class ParticipantVisibleError(Exception):
    # If you want an error message to be shown to participants, you must raise the error as a ParticipantVisibleError
    # All other errors will only be shown to the competition host. This helps prevent unintentional leakage of solution data.
    pass


def cal_classification_perf(y_true, y_pred):
    ''' ### Description
    This function calculates the classification performance: Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1 score.
    It considers different scenarios when divide by zero could occur for Precision, Recall and F1 score calculation.

    ### Parameters:
    - y_true: The true labels.
    - y_pred: The predicted labels.

    ### Return:
    - f1: The F1 score.
    '''
    # Only when y_pred contains no zeros, and y_true contains no zeros, set precision to be 1 when divide by zero occurs.
    if sum(y_true)==0 and sum(y_pred)==0:
        f1 = f1_score(y_true, y_pred, zero_division=1)
    else:
        f1 = f1_score(y_true, y_pred, zero_division=0)

    return f1


def score(solution: pd.DataFrame, submission: pd.DataFrame, row_id_column_name: str='idx') -> float:
    '''
    >>> import pandas as pd
    >>> num_rows = 5
    >>> data = {'idx': list(range(num_rows))}
    >>> for i in range(1, 7):
    ...     column_name = f'data_motor_{i}_label'
    ...     data[column_name] = [1] * num_rows
    >>> solution = pd.DataFrame(data)
    >>> submission = solution
    >>> score(solution.copy(), submission.copy())
    1.0
    '''


    del solution[row_id_column_name]
    del submission[row_id_column_name]

    results = []

    for i in range(6):
        col_name = f'data_motor_{i+1}_label'
        y_true = solution[col_name].values
        y_pred = submission[col_name].values
        result = cal_classification_perf(y_true, y_pred)
        results.append(result)

    score_result = sum(results)/len(results)

    return score_result
Citation
Zhiguo Zeng. Robot predictive maintenance - Season 2026. https://kaggle.com/competitions/robot-predictive-maintenance-season-2026, 2026. Kaggle.